---
title: "I'm (pretty) sure Imposter Syndrome is  my greatest strength"
date: 2025-05-17
---

Imposter Syndrome (n): the fear that others will eventually uncover your perceived weaknesses and question your competence.

It turns out that years of self-doubt and second-guessing myself means that when I finally get around to doing the damn thing, I walk away satisfied, knowing I gave it my all.
Feeling like an imposter meant never raising my hand to answer a question during lecture unless I was 97.5% sure of my answer. I underestimated myself enough to overprepare. I believed that my accolades were a result of luck and a lack of other applicants. Declining and deflecting compliments became my favorite grounding technique.

Most of the literature I have read on Imposter Syndrome speak about it as a devastating diagnosis that companies have invested hundreds of thousands of dollars in finding a cure for.

However, my perspective shifted at a Stanford leadership event a month ago. Here, an audience member asked the keynote speaker how she suppresses her Imposter Syndrome, to which she responded, “Why would I? Leaning into the Imposter archetype is the reason I have gotten so comfortable being uncomfortable. I hope to experience Imposter Syndrome for the rest of my life.”

Here’s how I see it: Being the Imposter (in a game of Among Us or in real life) translates to being in a constant state of high alert, afraid of being “found out”. Those of us who feel like imposters are placed in unfamiliar environments where we are operating outside our comfort zone, and frankly, that’s a great place to be. It’s only when I step out of my limits of knowledge, recognize that I may be a beginner, fail spectacularly, refine my technique, and get back up… that’s where the real growth happens.

For me, this reframing of the Imposter Phenomenon was what made me recognize it as my greatest hidden strength. To access this superpower, I had to make leaving my comfort zone a comfortable experience. I have to remind myself, “I’ve been down this road before. The last time I felt this way, I walked out of it stronger.”

However, too many self-limiting beliefs become outright dangerous and self-destructive. If Imposter Syndrome is a secret superpower, then too much of it is the ultimate kryptonite. It now becomes the force that makes leaving my comfort zone uncomfortable. Once Imposter Syndrome prevents me from getting started, makes me fear failure and rejection, or forces me towards perfectionist, people-pleasing tendencies, it becomes an Achilles’ Heel.

This thin line between superpower and greatest weakness is why it’s valuable for almost-adults and young adults to understand why they feel this way. Understanding your personal boundaries is like drawing a border on your map for when you do venture outside your comfort zone.

As a statistician, I often find myself asking questions and collecting data when I feel down: What life experiences made me feel like an Imposter? Am I inexperienced, unprepared, or need to work on my confidence? These days, instead of deflecting compliments, I now write down wins, save positive feedback emails in a “PRAISE” file, and frequently revisit them so I can bring them up at my next year-end review and in my personal life.

Rather than finding a cure for my Imposter Syndrome, I now reframe it as something that forces me to grow. Being an informed Imposter may very well be the secret recipe to seeing how far I’ve come while continuing to light a fire under my ass.

Perhaps, it’s time to stop asking what you can do for your Imposter Syndrome, and start reframing what your Imposter Syndrome can do for you.
